500 pesos
galungong 1kilo
pork sigang 1kilo
chicken wings 1kilo
rekados

from house
to market
while buying
back to house

HOUSE
1. First step make a list of purchases.
2. Prepare the currency selection.
3. Before leaving the house close the house properly and make sure the power is off.
If anyone is in the house, remind to guard the house.
4. Prepare the used vehicle before going to market.
5. Ask an acquaintance in which marketplace the products are cheaper.
6. If you know where, check the market route to avoid heavy traffic.
(If necessary)
7. And when they get to the market place, park the used vehicle properly.
 
TO MARKET
1. Check for cleanliness and only buy food from reputable business that follow food safety regulations.
2. Determine the general impression of the facility and make sure it looks and smells clean.
3. Come inside the store and get a basket or pushcart that fits your purchases.
4. Check the product list.



WHILE BUYING(tips)
1. How to check galungong if its fresh or not.
	*Smell the fish - if it's pleasant and neutral it's fresh.
	*Check the eye of the fish - eyes of old fish are cloudy and sunken into the head.
	*The body of a fresh fish is firm and has a specific consistency and appearance. (Soft, grey and inelastic fish is old or bad).		
2. How to check the pork if its fresh or not.
	*See if the meats are butchered well. Pick clean cuts and uniform size. Avoid jagged edges and hacked bits.
	* The note of the colour. Pick Rich, red flesh. Avoid Brownish flesh.
	* Test the firmness. Pick firm flesh. Avoid Limp flesh.
	*Sniff out any unusual odour. Pick odourless. Avoid bad odours.
3. How to check chicken wings if it's fresh or not.
	*Look at the colour of the flesh. Pick Fresh Pink flesh. Avoid Stale Grayish flesh.
	*Feel the texture. Pick fresh springy flesh. Avoid stale stiff of soft flesh.
	*Look out for bad odours. Pick odourless. Avoid bad odours.
	*See if there's blood on cut parts. Pick no  bloody spots. Avoid visible bloody spot.
4. Gather non-perishable items first. Then, select refrigerated and frozen items.
5. Put seasoning, condiment and vegetable on top of other foods in your cart.
6. Don't purchase produce with mold, major bruises or cuts.
7. If you are in the public market the most important thing before buying is ask for a ("Gomen'nasai","Sorry","tawad")discount.
8. Always give a smile to the cashier to have enjoyable day.

BACK TO HOUSE
1. Check your purchases to see if they are complete or missing.
2. Check your vehicle that will be used to return home to avoid any incidents.
3 Check route to avoid traffic.



